Incredible.
We finished another major milestone in CSX because now we know what is he says Box model.
Well next property is very very interesting because it might confuse you a lot in the beginning and
that is going to be the property of display was always let's start when I was an example and here I'm
gonna get rid of eating one as was the paragraph so in the styles that we have in the CSX and also in
the indexation IMO we're going to clean it up a little bit and different elements.
So we're going to get rid of the heading ones and paragraphs and we're going to start very simply by
having a div.
So I'm going to say there's going to be a div now here in a day I'm gonna write that I am block element
or just some kind of random text well random at the moment but you'll see why we're doing it.
Then within a day let's add a class and let's say class is gonna be a block again.
Doesn't really matter.
You can call and call this class orange.
It's not gonna change anything.
Most important thing is what we're going to do in the CSA.
So let's say there's going to be another heading and the heading is also gonna have the class another
class again is going to be the same thing block.
And also we're going to do the same thing with the text.
So text is gonna be block element and sure enough now I have two of them.
Now last but not least we're going to have paragraph.
And don't worry we're not going to add any more block elements.
But for now let's add a paragraph.
Again we're going to do the same thing and block Elam and something like this and then let's add the
same class.
So let me copy and paste the class.
Class is going to be right here with a paragraph and I have three elements so far so good.
Then I would like to head over online somewhere some would say I would like to open up the new window
and I'm gonna be going to pixels and those of you who are following the age normal part know that within
the pixels Web site we can get nice images.
So I'm just gonna search for some nice image and let's say here we're gonna call the smoothie and again
you can look for kitten doesn't really matter as long as you get the image.
I'm gonna go with this image and I'm going to say Save image now I'm going to look for my sister's folder
and then within the a says folder not just call this photo again doesn't really matter.
I just needed for example.
Now I have my photo so far so good.
So I was like Here photo J pic and now let's create three more elements.
So there's gonna be the first one span and for this guy we're gonna say class in line and the only thing
I would suggest is if you're adding different class names try to match them because then you're all
going to see the actually better what's happening.
Please don't name this orange than this one apple and then it's gonna be harder for you to see what
we're doing.
So I'm going to say I am in line element and that's going to be my span here and maybe we can just copy
and paste this and change this around a little bit.
You know what I actually didn't want too many.
So I would like to have your image.
Is gonna be my element and for the sauce I know that I look in this folder and in this folder I have
photo and we're looking for J.
Now what else I have I would also I'd like to add some with and let's say with there's gonna be 50 pixels
so far so good.
I have two spans and then I'm also looking here for the last one which is gonna be linked and you know
what I actually didn't need to copy and pasted and that was a useless part of my actions.
And let's do a trip attribute.
Let's just say that link is not going to go anywhere it's gonna stay on this page and the class is also
gonna be in line so far so good.
Let's call this also I am in line element I know this was kind of a little bit annoying and long example
HMO but hopefully you're gonna forgive me and we'll be able to work in a C assess and see why we're
doing on this now let's head over to see assess and let's add some basic styles them.
So for the black ones all of them who are black not just right and my background is gonna be let's say
blue.
Very very original and then color let's say is going to be white.
Now for inline ones I would like to add something else I'm going to say in line element and here I'm
gonna have the background of red and the color is gonna be white so I think this is gonna look sharp
enough now as I'm looking on the right hand side.
What are you noticing.
So I have three elements here on top and I could have added way more that I just needed to prove my
point.
And what you're seeing is that they are looking at least differently than the ones in the bottom because
what's happening is the for each in one of them even though we have more space we are starting a new
line as well as each and every element is spanning from one side of the screen all the way to another
side of the screen even though again we can change the screen size it's still going to do the same thing.
Now the bottom ones are behaving a little differently.
So they are not starting a new line as well as they only take up as much space as necessary.
And what's happening is that in the CSX or in the interstate Mel what's happening is that there is elements
that by default we're going to have display property in fact all elements have by default some kind
of display property.
Now property is going to be the same but the value might be different where for some elements the property
is going to be block by default right away.
And for some of them it is going to be in line and what's happening with the block is that with block
level elements or block elements they will always going to start a new line and they're all going to
take up the full with.
Now for the inline ones they will not gonna start a new line and only going to take up as much space
as content is necessary.
Now that is important because you will going to use this a lot whenever you're styling it wherever you're
dealing with some kind of layout whatever you're dealing with.
I don't know how it looks it will gonna play a big role later on especially the more and more work you're
gonna do with CSX.
Now what's really nifty is that we can control this property so we're not just looking at it and saying
okay there's nothing I can do I just have this plan and this is an inline element because what we can
do is we can go here I said display.
So that would be the name of the property and let's change that.
Let's say that this is not gonna be in line anymore.
And by the way notice if I'm going to write in line nothing is gonna change because by default all the
inline elements already have this set and display in line but we can do this block.
Now check this one out so I'm gonna say this play block and the one when I say read all of them start
new line and all of them span from one side to another.
Now we can do the same thing with the block once again I would first need to show you that if I'm gonna
go here and if I'm going to save this play and we're going to call this block nothing is going to change
because again by default they are block level elements or block elements.
However we can do in line and now notice what's happening here.
E in line and now we have them here as in line element.
So now they're again taking only as much space as their content and they're not starting a new line
and that's something that I mentioned in the very very beginning when I talked about Devens pan and
I said I'm going to talk about this later but this is when we're covering the fact that all the elements
are gonna have either inline or block set for display property and this will gonna matter as we actually
start working with them and start styling them and see assess.